WIN32 CONFIGURATIONS

This directory contains information and makefiles / project files for
Windows NT and Windows 95/98/2000. Currently, only one configuration
is supported:

- Windows NT/9x with WINSOCK using the Microsoft Visual C++ Compiler
  Version 5.0 (project files can also be imported into Version 6.0).

The ZIP file msvc5.zip contains the project information for the following
parts of the toolkit:

 1. ofstd    - library
 2. dcmdata  - library and all applications 
 3. dcmnet   - library and all applications
 4. imagectn - library and all applications (including tests)
 5. wlistctn - library and wlistctn application
 6. dcmimage - library and all applications
 7. dcmimgle - library and all applications
 8. dcmpstat - library and all applications
 9. dcmsign  - library and all applications
10. dcmsr    - library and all applications (including tests)
11. dcmtls   - library

The following parts of the toolkit are not supported and probably will 
never be:

1. ctndisp - This part needs X-Windows and Unix shared memory. It is not
   planned to port it to Windows NT/9x.
2. wlistctn web server scripts - This part needs perl and consistent 
   locking mechanisms between perl and C++. It should be principle possible to 
   port it. 

COMPILE INSTRUCTIONS:

1. Unzip the file msvc5.zip into the same directory in which you have
   unpacked the source archive itself. You can do this e.g. with WinZIP or
   InfoZIP.
2. Rename the extensions of all .cc files into .cxx
   (e.g. ren .cc .cxx with the COMMAND shell or if you have a UNIX workstation 
   station available use config/changext cxx). You must rename files in the
   libsrc, apps and tests directories of all modules.
2. Start the Microsoft Developer Studio.
3. Open Workspace.. and select dcmtk.dsw
4. Choose one of the subprojects and build it. If you want to build all 
   applications, mark all subprojects and select "build selection" from the 
   context menu.

KNOWN PROBLEMS:

1. The imagectn and wlistctn cannot spark multiple processes. Every 
   association must be handled completely before a new association is 
   possible.
2. On Windows 95, imagectn always uses exclusive file locking
   (the LockFileEx API call is available on Windows NT only).
   This is no problem if only one single process exists.
3. Most applications will only work if the computer has configured TCP/IP, 
   a network name and a TCP/IP address. If SLIP or PPP is used the
   applications can only work if a connection to a provider exists (since 
   the internet addresses and names are given dynamically).
